Quality Question Response

QUALITY QUESTION RESPONSE DOCUMENT (50%)

Bidder s guidance notes for completion 

The following information is provided to guide you through the questions in this part of the tender process. 

Prior to completing this Quality Questionnaire, Bidders must read the Invitation to Tender (ITT) Document, Specification and any other documents provided. 

To assist our Evaluation Panel with assessing your response to each question below please ensure your answers are unambiguous, concise, and highly relevant. Anything that is not directly relevant to the question should not be included and will not be evaluated.

Additional supporting charts and diagrams may be submitted, but any such attachments must be referenced to the appropriate response otherwise they will not be considered.

Please adhere to any Word/Page limits that may be set for a question   any text provided that exceeds the set limit may not be considered for evaluation and therefore may affect your potential score.  

Where Page Count is specified:

Please note   any submissions exceeding the page count shall have excess wording redacted prior to evaluation. Page counts shall not apply to genuine images, tables, graphs, or stated required additional attachments. Any attachments must be clearly titled with reference to the question the attachment relates to.  

 Page format requirement (unless otherwise stated):  

 11-point Arial font (Bold or underlining may be used to indicate titles)  

1.5 line spacing  

1 inch or 2.54cm margin on every side of the page  

A4 page size 

Where images mostly contain words as opposed to drawings, diagrams etc., these shall be counted towards the page count.

Quality Questions: 

Question 1 Service Delivery

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Please provide a clear explanation of how you will deliver the Service and meet your responsibilities outlined in the specification. 

 

 

The response should provide: 

assurance that section 3 and 4 of the specification will be met in full. 

The services you will provide and for which age groups; 

How you will support RBC to promote the Services and increase take-up and awareness of the services. 

 

12%

Response limit 4 Pages. Please add the pages to the end of this document clearly marked with the question number.

Question 2: Staffing

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Please describe how you ensure your staff have the required skills, knowledge and qualifications and   how this will ensure a safe and reliable service. 

 

Detail the approach you will adopt to ensure the health and wellbeing of your staff. 

Refer to Section 4.1 to 4.8 of the Specification. 

Describe how you will recruit, train, and develop staff of all grades in order to deliver the service. 

 

Explain how you will ensure all staff related safeguarding requirements will be met in this contract, including: 

your safer recruitment processes. 

how you ensure that staff have safeguarding training, understand policies and procedures are put these into practice; and  

that all staff understand their responsibilities to report safeguarding concerns. 

Please attach your Safer Recruiting Policy 

Your staff s well-being is supported

12%

Response limit 4 Pages. Please add the pages to the end of this document clearly marked with the question number.

Question 3: Safeguarding (non-staff related)

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Safeguarding. Describe how you will meet the Safeguarding requirements. 

Refer to Section 4.16 and 4.17 of the Specification.  

 

Please show the robust arrangement you have in place to manage Safeguarding effectively and control significant risks relevant to the requirement of this service.  

 

Please attach your Safeguarding Policy. 

Please provide any anonymised supporting evidence such as charts, diagrams, policies, reports. These are for information only and will not be scored.

10%

Response limit 3 Pages. Please add the pages to the end of this document clearly marked with the question number.

Question 4: Meeting KPIs

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Please outline how you will monitor and collect data and information to show how you have met the required KPIs 

  

Please refer to Section 5 Contract Management of the specification.

Please describe how you will collect the data and information required to evidence meeting the specified KPI

Please outline the measures you will be putting in place to ensure you meet the KPIs.

How will you use the information and data collected to improve your services.

6%

Response limit 1 Pages. Please add the page to the end of this document, clearly marked with the question number.

Question 5: Business Continuity

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Please outline your business continuity plans and how you will deal with staff shortages to deliver on the contract outcomes? 

  

Please outline how you will ensure that services are delivered when there is a failure such as:

Venue becomes unusable

Staff absences resulting staff/child rations not being met

Kitchen or food delivery failure

How you will keep parents/carers informed 

This list are examples and your response should not be limited the situations listed.

Please upload a copy of your business continuity plan.

5%

Response limit 1 Page. Please add the page to the end of this document, clearly marked with the question number.

Question 6: Mobilisation

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

How will your organisation ensure a smooth transition for the new contract taking account of the timescales for service commencement? 

Provide a copy of your Mobilisation Plan for this contract.

Please outline how you will ensure you will be ready to deliver sessions for the Summer Holidays. Please cover the following:

Staff recruitment

Securing venues

Ensuring healthy and nutritious meals will be provided

Administration:

Who will be responsible for managing the booking system

How will you promote your services

Please upload your mobilisation plan.

5%

Response limit 1 Page. Please add the page to the end of this document, clearly marked with the question number.

Question 7: Social Value

Response Criteria 

Weighting %

Social value.    

The Public Services Act 2012 (Social Value) requires organisations to consider, when procuring goods or services, how they may improve economic, social, and environmental well-being.   

**This question will be scored using the social value scoring criteria set out in the ITT   

  

RBC is seeking a partnership with its Supplier that drives social as well as economic value. The Supplier should demonstrate how it will provide opportunities and benefits to the local community throughout the term of the contract.     

As referred to in the ITT, the bidder can select three or more Social Value commitments from Social Value Matrix, then:   

As a minimum:  

Detail which Social Value measures selected,   

Detail how the Social Value commitment will be delivered within the contract term,   

Detail the benefits for RBC s local community, and  

The bidders Social Value policy/statement of purpose.  

For added value please provide a Social Value delivery plan as an attachment.    

Please provide any supporting evidence such as charts, diagrams, policies, reports for example.  

  

5%

Response limit 1 Page. Please add the page to the end of this document, clearly marked with the question number.