Targeted Short Breaks	

Invitation to Tender (ITT)

Open Procedure

Project Reference:

25-S-134

Deadline for Submissions:

HH:00, DD MMMM 20YY

Note to Tenderers: It is the responsibility of Tenderers to register on the Supplier Information System (SIS) on the Central Digital Platform (CPD), to ensure their core supplier information is up to date on this system, and to answer the questions in that system to enable the Authority to determine whether any exclusion grounds apply. Tenderers must share the information with the Authority via the system s sharing facility as detailed in this document.

ITT Contents 

Section 1:  Introduction & Background	4

Section 2:  Tender Procedure	7

Section 3:  ITT Stage 1   Procurement Specific Questionnaire (PSQ)	11

Section 4:  ITT Stage 2:	13

Section 5:  General Guidance & Instructions	20

Section 6:  Tender Rules - Procurement Terms and Conditions	26

Glossary	37

Appendix 1:  TUPE	38

Appendix 2:  Data Protection	39

Tender Documents 

The following documents form part of this tender pack: 

Ser

Document Title

Page No

1

Specification

2

Contract Terms & Conditions

3

Standard Forms Annex a-e

Form of Tender (Annex A)

Non collusion Certificate (Annex B)

Conflict of Interest (Annex C)

Commercially Sensitive Information (Annex D)

Confidentiality Certificate (Annex E)

TUPE (Appendix 1)

4

ITT Stage 1   Procurement Specific Questionnaire (PSQ)

5

ITT Stage 2   Quality Questions

6

ITT Stage 2   Pricing Document (Annex 2)

7

Other Supporting Documentation

Ser

Table of Contents

Page No

Section 1

Introduction & Background

4

Section 2

Tender Procedure

7

Section 1: Introduction & Background

Introduction

This Procurement is being conducted in accordance with the Procurement Act 2023 using the Competitive Flexible Procedure. This document describes how the Procurement will be conducted, including details of the associated Procurement timetable, participation and award criteria and how to respond to this opportunity. Suppliers are strongly encouraged to read this document before preparing their submission.

Reading Borough Council (the Authority) invites suitable organisations to tender for the following opportunity:

Project Title

Targeted Short Breaks

Contract Commencement Date (anticipated)

15/06/2026

Estimated Total Contract Value

£600,000

Initial Contract Duration

2 years

Extension Period(s) & Format

2, 12 month extensions

Procurement Model

Framework

Procurement Procedure

Open Procedure

Price / Quality %

50% / 50%

Contract Terms

Reading Borough Council

Background

Reading Borough Council

Reading Borough Council is a Unitary Authority located in Berkshire serving a population of more than 170,000 people. Further information on the profile of Reading Borough can be found at:  www.reading.gov.uk/about-reading/borough-profile/   

2.2	The Authority adopted a Council Plan which outlines our vision and priorities for Reading for the next 3 years. 

Our vision is to help Reading realise its potential and to ensure that everyone who lives and works here can share the benefits of its success. 

To deliver this vision we are focusing on the following five priorities over the next three years:  

Promote more equal communities in Reading 

Secure Reading s economic and cultural success 

Deliver a sustainable and healthy environment and reduce Reading s carbon footprint 

Safeguard and support the health and wellbeing of Reading s adults and children 

Ensure Reading Borough Council is fit for the future 

Details of the Council Plan for 2025   2028 can be found at:   

 Reading Council Plan 2025-28.pdf  

Project Scope

The Children s Act 1989 and Breaks for Carers of Disabled Children Regulations 2011 place a duty on local authorities to provide services designed to minimise the effect of their disability on disabled children, to give children the opportunity to lead lives which are as normal as possible and assist individuals who provide care for disabled children to continue to do so, or to do so more effectively, by giving them breaks from caring. 

 

The Council s Short Breaks statement (Reading Directory | SEND Short Breaks) outlines the tiered approach applied in establishing threshold eligibility for each area of short break provision. There are 3 levels of Short Breaks support which are explained in the sections, as follows: 

Level 1   Community Short Breaks   Universal Offer

Details of community short breaks are available via the Family Information Service and Local Offer. 

Level 2   Community Short Breaks (also known as Targeted Short Breaks)   Targeted Offer 

The Community Short Breaks either consist of commissioned activity sessions or the provision of direct payments. 

Level 3   Specialist Short Breaks Offer 

The specialist short break offer is provided at Cressingham. This can be in the form of an overnight short break or children accessing the service to attend the Independence Club or day service.

This tender is for the commissioned Level 2 Targeted Short Breaks (TSB), and are for children with an Education Health and Care Plan (EHCP) and who are also in receipt of either Disability Living Allowance (DLA) or Personal Independence Payments (PIP). 

The purpose of TSBs is to enable children with disabilities to independently access activities within the community This facilitates children with disabilities to be part of activities with other children, which promotes their social and emotional development in a safe and structured way.  Full details of the requirement can be found in the Specification. The tender documents contain proposals for the works.

Section 2: Tender Procedure

Key Activity and Timescales

The Authority will endeavour to adhere to the following timetable but will not incur any liability whatsoever for any changes that become necessary.  Any changes to this timetable shall be notified to tenderers as soon as is practicable.

The key indicative dates for this procurement are as follows:

Procurement Stage

Date

Tender Notice and Tender Documents, including ITT, Published

23/02/2026

Pre-Tender Submission Clarification Deadline

18/03/2026

ITT Deadline 

25/03/2026

Evaluation of Tenders against Award Criteria (Start)

25/03/2026

Evaluation of Tenders against Award Criteria (End)

08/04/2026

Contract Award Letters and Assessment Summaries Issued

01/05/2026

Contract Award Notice Published

04/05/2026

Standstill Begins [8 working days]

04/05/2026

Standstill Ends [8 working days]

14/05/2026

Contract Details Notice and Contract Published 

15/05/2026

Finalise KPIs to be Published

15/05/2026

Supplier Planning Meeting

15/05/2026

Contract Start Date 

01/06/2026

**See section 3.1 Transparency Notices for more information of Notices.

	

Tendering Procedure

Tenderers must read and abide by the Tendering Rules set out in this document.  Failure to do so may result in the Tenderer s submission being disqualified.

Tenders must be completed and submitted via the Authority s online eProcurement Portal (In-Tend), as per the deadlines stated in table 5.1 above.

Please note: To ensure important eProcurement Portal notifications are received by your organisation, please check your spam/junk inbox, as initial notifications may automatically go into these inboxes.

Tender submission should consist of the following completed and properly signed documents:

ITT Stage 1   Procurement Specific Questionnaire (PSQ)

ITT Stage 2   Quality Questions

TT Stage 2   Pricing Document (Annex 2)

ITT Stage 2   Annex a   e forms

Tenders which do not include all the above documentation, may be disqualified. 

Where a Tenderer is required to complete and return a template document designed and issued by the Authority, for example pricing documents or quality questions, then any formatting and or protections set by the Authority must not be changed in any way.  If a Tenderer is found to have amended any of the formatting/protection without the written permission of the Authority, this may result in their tender being deemed to be non-compliant and their submission being excluded from the tender process.

The required Standards Forms (Annex a - e) should be uploaded as part of your tender submission.  If you are bidding as a Consortium, these documents should be completed and signed by the lead Consortium Party on behalf of the Consortium.

Tenderers are advised to read all the tender documents thoroughly to ensure that all the Authority s requirements are addressed.  The Tenderer must obtain for themself all the information necessary for making a tender submission and entering into a Contract by considering all the tender documents with regard to the nature of the Authority s requirement.  Tenderers will be deemed to have fully acquainted themselves with the extent and nature of the Services before submitting a tender.

The information contained within this document should be regarded as a statement of the Authority s current position as it is able to determine at this time. Tenderers must carefully examine and consider the tender documents and satisfy themselves of the appropriateness and validity of any information provided. In submitting a tender, Tenderers shall be deemed to have read and understood all of the tender documents.

Tenderers must register on the Supplier Information System (SIS) on the Central Digital Platform, ensure their core supplier information is up to date on this system, and answer the questions in that system to enable the Authority to determine whether any exclusion grounds apply. Tenderers must share the information with the Authority via the system s sharing facility.

Tender Clarifications

All clarification questions relating to this tender must be submitted via the eProcurement portal no later than the deadline set out in paragraph 5.1 above. Questions submitted and their responses will be published as soon as possible to all Tenderers. 

The Authority reserves the right (but shall not be obliged) to seek clarification of any aspect of a tender during the evaluation phase.  Any such requests must be responded to promptly. 

All clarification questions must be communicated through the eProcurement Portal.  Any clarification questions received by other means will not be responded to. 

The Authority will issue its response to each question to all tenderers via a Clarification Log published on the eProcurement Portal.

If a Tenderer wishes the Authority to treat a clarification question as confidential and not provide a response to all Tenderers it must state this when submitting the clarification question. If, in the Authority s opinion, the clarification is not confidential then the Authority will inform the Tenderer and give the Tenderer the opportunity to withdraw it. If the clarification is not withdrawn, then the response will be published to all Tenderers.

Tenderers must not rely on any communication from the Authority in respect of this tender unless they are made in accordance with this ITT. 

Tender Evaluation

The Award is assessed using the weighted quality and capability/technical questions and the price bid by Tenderers within the Pricing Schedule, subject to passing any minimum quality scores. In order to calculate the Most Advantageous Tender (MAT), the overall price/quality basis as shown in the table in 1.2 above. 

Section 3: ITT Stage 1   Procurement Specific Questionnaire (PSQ)

In order for the tender submission to be accepted and move into stage 2 of this procurement process, the submitted tender must comply and Pass with the following sections:

Completion Instructions

The PSQ is relevant for above threshold procurements under the Procurement Act 23, which. Regulation 6 of the Procurement Regulations 2024 requires contracting authorities - before the end of the tendering period in competitive tendering procedures (i.e. open procedures and competitive flexible procedures); and before the award of the contract in direct awards and competitive selection processes for framework call-offs - to obtain confirmation from suppliers that: 

the supplier has registered on the Central Digital Platform (CDP) 

submitted up-to-date core supplier information on the CDP 

provided that information to the contracting authority via the CDP  

The Authority will use the PSQ in this tender to confirm the detail above in Part 1 & 2 of the PSQ and may also choose to request additional information to satisfy relevant capability which are referred to as Conditions of Participation. 

In order to successfully satisfy the PSQ and conditions of participation on this procurement, Tenderers must:  

Provide all requested information in the PSQ. 

Meet all mandatory requirements pass/fail questions. 

Respond to all discretionary requirements. 

Meet all discretionary requirements in Part 3 of the PSQ 

If any tender fails or seriously misrepresents any information in responding to the PSQ, the rest of the tender may not be evaluated, and the Tenderer may not continue in the Procurement Process.

Section 4: ITT Stage 2:

Quality Questions

Pricing Document 

Please note that the evaluation criteria for this stage of the Tender will be split as follows:

Criteria

Weighting

Quality

50%

Price

50%

 

Order of Evaluation

Evaluation of ITT Stage 2 submissions will take place in the following order:

Evaluation of any Pass/Fail elements on the ITT Stage 2 Quality Questions and Pricing Document.  If a Tenderer scores a Fail on any Pass/Fail elements, then that tender will be excluded and no further evaluation of it will take place. If your tender receives a Pass score on all Pass/Fail elements; then

Evaluation of responses of the ITT Stage 2 Quality Questions and Pricing Document will take place.  Evaluation of these responses will be undertaken by a panel of subject matter experts in accordance with the relevant methodology set out below; then

If at any stage a tender is excluded based on the methodologies set out below then that tender will not be evaluated further and will not be considered when determining the winning Tenderer. 

At any stage of the evaluation process the Authority reserves the right (but is not obliged) to seek clarification of any aspect of a Tenderer's tender during the evaluation phase where necessary for the purposes of carrying out a fair evaluation. Tenderers are asked to respond to such requests promptly. Vague or ambiguous answers are likely to score poorly or render the tender non-compliant.

Variant Tenders

Variant tenders will not be accepted for this opportunity.  All tenders must conform to the terms of this ITT, the requirements set out in the Specification and the Contract Terms and Conditions.

 Quality Evaluation

Quality carries an overall weighting of 50%.

Evaluators will score each Quality Question independently using the Scoring Methodology in paragraph 12.10 below and record their justification/commentary on their scoring sheet for each tender. 

If the Evaluators have any clarification questions relating to any response, these will be notified to Tenderers via the eProcurement Portal with a set period for Tenderers to respond. Failure by any Tenderer to respond within the stipulated time period may lead to the tender being excluded from the Procurement Process. 

Once clarification responses have been received by the Evaluators, Evaluators will complete their individual evaluator scoring reports and pass these to the moderator who will chair a consensus and moderation meeting with the panel of Evaluators. 

During the moderation meeting, the moderator will discuss the scores individually allocated by the Evaluators with a view to reaching an agreed consensus score for each response.  

The final moderated score for each Quality Question will be multiplied by the relevant weighting multiplier in order to calculate the percentage weighted score for each Quality Question, using the formula below.

Tender  A  achieves a score of 6 for Question 1 with a 10% score, the percentage weighted score would be calculated by dividing 6 by the total maximum score available of 10 for the question and multiplying by 100 (6/10*100=60). A weighting multiplier of 0.1, would then be applied to give a weighted percentage for the question, which in this example would be 10% (=60*0.1= 6%). Weighted percentages for each Quality Question will then be added together to determine the total percentage score for the Quality Response (out of the total % allocated for quality).

The weighted scores of each Quality Question will then be added together to determine the total percentage score for the Quality Response (out of the total % allocated for quality).

Please note that at each stage of the Evaluation, mathematical results will be rounded to two (2) decimal places. For the purposes of rounding to two decimal places, if the number in the third decimal place is:

0-4 (inclusive), then the number in the second decimal place will remain unchanged.

5-9 (inclusive), then the number in the second decimal place will be rounded up to the next number.

The Authority reserves the right to exclude any bid that scores 2 or below for any quality question submitted.

12. Quality Scoring Methodology 

12.1. The Evaluators will evaluate each Quality Question using the Scoring Methodology below. The exception to this is the Social Value question which has its own scoring methodology to be applied and is set out in paragraph 13.1 below. 

Score

Classification

Definition

0

No response 

No response at all or insufficient information provided in the response such that the response is totally un-assessable and/or incomprehensible. The response is considered non-compliant with the requirements or minimum standards. 

2

Poor 

The response does not meet several significant areas in the Council s requirements. Little or no detail has been provided to support and demonstrate the Tenderers ability to provide the required deliverables and/or considerable reservations as to the Tenderers ability to deliver the requirements.  

4

Minor reservations 

Response does not fully meet the Council s requirements. Response is mostly supported by clear evidence or other forms of assurance. Some minor reservations or minor weaknesses of how the Tenderer will meet the requirements by their allocation of skills and understanding, resources and quality measures. 

6

Good response 

Response largely addresses and meets the requirements and is mostly supported by clear evidence or other forms of assurance that provides confidence in the bidder s ability to deliver the requirements.  

8

Excellent response  

Response fully addresses and meets the requirements, with full details and, where evidence is required or necessary, full, and relevant information provided. 

Provides full confidence in the Tenderers ability to provide the required deliverables and requirements.  

10

Outstanding response 

Response fully addresses and meets the Council s requirements and is always supported by clear evidence or other forms of assurance that provides confidence in the bidder s ability to deliver the requirements and provides significant benefits/related added value over and above the stated requirements. Meaning the response identifies factors that demonstrates added value, with evidence to support the response. 

Added Value

Added value is a key consideration in the Authority s tendering processes, and it refers to the additional benefits or advantages a Tenderer can offer beyond the core services or specified requirements in this tender.

Added value responses/commitments are considered above the stated requirements and which are relevant to the Authority s requirements.

By incorporating added value into the tender response, a Tenderer can differentiate their proposal from competitors and increase the chances of a higher scoring tender submission.

Further information regarding Added Value can be found below in S