Invitation to Participate 
Living Well at Home PDPS 
 
Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria  

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria  
 
  1   
 
 
 
EVALUATION OVERVIEW 
 
 
All Applications will be marked using the following process before the PDPS Agreement is 
awarded in relation to each individual Lot.  
 
Selection  Evaluation  Criteria     Acceptance/rejection  of  Applicants  based  on  business 
standing, financial standing, technical and professional ability. 
 
In these procurement documents the term "Self-cleaning" is used. This term arises out of 
Regulation  57(13)  of  The  Public  Contracts  Regulations  2015.  Self-cleaning  allows 
Applicants  to provide evidence that any breaches that may have occurred in the grounds for 
exclusion outlined in this document  have now been rectified and measures have put in  place 
to ensure compliance . The Authority reserves the right to consider the measures taken and 
deem whether the remedial action taken is sufficient and whether the Authority requires the 
submission of satisfactory evidence by the Applicant prior to appointment. 
 
 
CRITERIA 
SECTION 
NUMBERS 
DOCUMENT 
EXPLANATION FOR 
ALLOCATION OF 
WEIGHTING 
CRITERIA 
WEIGHTING 
Selection 1 - 7 
Selection 
Criteria 
Questionnaire 
Must pass all questions to be 
eligible to be appointed 
Pass or Fail 
 
Where  appropriate,  the  Authority  will  request  evidence  of  the  self-cleaning  measures 
implemented following the evaluation process. If any of the successful Applicants are found to 
have failed the selection criteria or fail to provide the information required by the Authority, 
they will be rejected from the process.  
 
 
Please note, owing to the existence of Lot specific selection criteria within Part 3, 
Applicants  will be awarded a  PASS / FAIL for each Lot they bid for, as indicated in 
their response to Question 1.4 in Section 1.

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria  
 
  2   
 
Part 1: Potential supplier Information 
Section 1 - Potential supplier 
information (1.1), 
Bidding 
model (1.2 and 1.3) 
 
1.1 (a-f) 
PASS All information has been provided for all questions. 
FAIL Information requested not provided in respect of all of the questions. 
1.1 (g i) 
PASS A response of 'Yes', or a response of N/A if not applicable 
FAIL A response of 'No' 
1.1 (g ii) 
PASS If response to 1.1 (g i) is 'Yes' All information has been provided for all 
questions. 
FAIL If response to 1.1 (g i) is 'Yes' but no response to 1.1 (g ii) 
1.1 (h i) 
PASS A response of 'Yes' or 'No' is provided (if applicable); or no response as the 
question is not applicable as the procurement is not for services. 
FAIL A failure to provide a response to 1.1 (h-i) where appropriate. 
1.1 (h ii) 
PASS If response to 1.1 (h-i) is 'Yes', the requested information and confirmation of 
compliance has been provided. 
FAIL If response to 1.1 (h-i) is 'Yes' but no confirmation of compliance is given in 
response to 1.1 (h-ii). 
1.1 (i   m) 
PASS All information has been provided for all questions. 
FAIL Information requested not provided for some or any of the questions. 
1.2  
PASS 
If bidding as a single supplier (information 1.2 a-e not required) OR part of a 
group or consortium all information is provided for 1.2 a-e. 
 
FAIL 
If bidding as part of a group or consortium, information requested not provided 
in respect of any of the questions.  
1.3  
PASS All information has been provided for all questions. 
FAIL Information requested not provided in respect of some or any of the 
questions. 
1.4 
PASS     A response has been provided for all questions. 
FAIL Information requested not provided in respect of some or any of the 
questions. 
 
Part 2: Exclusion Grounds 
Section 
2
 - Grounds for mandatory 
exclusion
 (2.1) 
See Annex D of the questionnaire for guidance 
2.1 (a) 
For the questions within 2.1 you must self-certify whether any of the grounds for 
mandatory exclusion apply, as specified by the questions. 
 
The detailed grounds for mandatory exclusion of an organisation are set out in Annex D of 
the Selection Criteria Questionnaire, which should be referred to before completing these 
questions. 
 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  3   
 
If a supplier is scored a FAIL for a question within these sections, then this will result in the 
supplier's elimination from the evaluation process and the Authority will not proceed with 
the scoring of its Evaluation Criteria for this ITT. 
 
2.1 
PASS Responses of 'No' to 2.1(a) each question, or a response of a 'Yes' 2.1(a)  
but appropriate evidence of self-cleaning is provided within 2.1(b) and 2.1(c) 
(see section on 'Self-cleaning' below for guidance and instructions on this). 
FAIL The  Authority  is  entitled  to  exclude  Applicants from the ITP  if  any  of  the 
mandatory and discretionary grounds for exclusion apply, as indicated by a 
Applicant  responding  'Yes'  to  a  question,  and/or  the  Authority  has  other 
external  evidence.  However,  the  Authority  will  consider  all  the  relevant 
circumstances, and will at its discretion allow an Applicant to score a PASS 
and  proceed  if  it  provides  evidence  of  'Self-cleaning'  to  the  Authority's 
satisfaction. 
Section 
3
 - Mandatory and discretionary grounds relating to the payment of taxes 
and social security contributions (3.2   3.3) 
3.2 (a)   (b) and 3.3 
You must self-certify whether any of the grounds for mandatory and  discretionary 
exclusion apply, as specified by the questions. 
PASS Responses of 'YES' to 3.2(a), or a response of a 'No' 3.2(a)  but appropriate 
evidence of self-cleaning is provided within 3.2(b) and 3.3 (see section on 'Self-
cleaning' below for guidance and instructions on this). 
FAIL The Authority is entitled to exclude Applicants from the ITP if any of the 
mandatory and discretionary grounds for exclusion apply, as indicated by a 
Applicant responding 'No' to a question, and/or the Authority has other 
external evidence. However, the Authority will consider all the relevant 
circumstances, and will at its discretion allow an Applicant to score a PASS 
and proceed if it provides evidence of 'Self-cleaning' to the Authority's 
satisfaction. 
Section 4- Grounds for discretionary 
exclusion
  (4.1   4.4) 
4.1 (a)   (j) and (j) (i-iv) 
You must self-certify whether any of the grounds for discretionary exclusion apply, as 
specified by the questions. 
PASS Responses of 'No' to each question, or a response of a 'Yes' to one or more 
questions but appropriate evidence of self-cleaning is provided within 4.4 (see 
section on 'Self-cleaning' below for guidance and instructions on this). 
FAIL The Authority is entitled to exclude Applicants from the ITP if any of the 
discretionary grounds for exclusion apply, as indicated by an Applicant 
responding 'Yes' to a question, and/or the Authority has other external 
evidence.   However, the Authority will consider all the relevant 
circumstances, and will at its discretion allow an Applicant to score a PASS 
and proceed if it provides evidence of 'Self-cleaning' to the Authority's 
satisfaction. 
4.2 
PASS     If the statement is applicable and you have responded 'Yes' to all parts of the 
question and 4.3 
FAIL If the statement is applicable and you responded 'No' to any or all parts of the 
question and did not provide the required information for 4.3. 
 
Self-cleaning: important instructions 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  4   
 
Self-cleaning: If a Applicant responds 'Yes' to any of the questions within 2.1(a), or 4.1(a), 
or 'No' to any of the questions within 3.2(a), 4.2, the Authority may request further evidence 
of self-cleaning at any time prior to award.   
In order for the evidence referred to above to be sufficient, the Applicants shall, as a 
minimum, prove that it has: 
 
   Paid or undertaken to pay compensation in respect of any damage caused by the 
criminal offence or misconduct; 
 
   clarified  the  facts  and  circumstances  in  a  comprehensive  manner  by  actively 
collaborating with the investigating authorities; and 
 
   taken  concrete  technical,  organisational  and  personnel  measures  that  are 
appropriate to prevent further criminal offences or misconduct. 
 
The measures taken by the Applicant shall be evaluated taking into account the gravity and 
particular circumstances of the criminal offence or misconduct. Where the measures are 
considered by the Authority to be insufficient, the Applicant shall be given a statement of 
the reasons for that decision, and the question(s) shall be scored as a FAIL.  
 
The Authority can use its discretion as to whether the Applicant may be awarded a PASS, 
provided the Applicant can demonstrate remedial action to the Authority's satisfaction. 
 
If an Applicant responds 'Yes' to any of the questions within 2.1(a), or 4.1(a), or 'No' to any 
of the questions within 3.2(a), 4.2 and subsequently does not provide any evidence that 
is requested of Self-cleaning the Applicant will fail that question and be excluded from the 
process.  
 
Self-cleaning is not applicable to discretionary exclusion grounds which are procurement-
specific  and  which  do  not  arise  from  Applicants  misdeeds  ( conflict  of  interest   and 
 distortion of competition from prior involvement ). 
 
Part 3: Selection Questions 
Section 5   Economic and financial standing (5.1   5.4) 
5.1-5.3 (a-b) 
PASS The Tenderer can provide the requested details to one of the questions 
5.1, 5.2, 5.3(a) or 5.3(b). 
FAIL The Authority may fail a Tenderer if they cannot provide the requested 
details for at least one of the questions 5.1, 5.2, 5.3(a), or 5.3(b). 
5.4 
PASS The specified minimum level 
of 
economic and financial standing for 
this 
procurement is set out below: 
If  both  of  the  following  criteria  are  achieved,  the  Applicant  will  achieve  a 
PASS and should select Yes within the selection questionnaire. 
 
   A result of 0.7 or above for the current ratio; and 
   A result of 1 or below for the debt ratio. 
 
These  ratios  must  apply  to  the  two  most  recent  financial  periods  where 
accounts have been required to be filed. 
 
To calculate the financial ratios: 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION   evaluation method 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  5   
 
Current ratio  Current assets divided by current liabilities 
Debt ratio Total debt divided by total assets 
 
The Authority reserves the right to use a third-party provider of business 
information, this may be to validate the financial information provided by 
the Applicant, to identify areas of concern and/or for further information 
where required. 
 
The  Authority  reserves  the  right  to  carry  out  further  financial  stability 
evaluation  if  it  deems  it  necessary,  which  may  involve  seeking  further 
information  such  as  details  of  your  accounting  model  or  information 
concerning any underwritten debt. 
At the sole discretion of the Authority, the further information provided may 
be taken into account to assess whether your organisation will PASS the 
question. 
FAIL If a Tenderer selects 'No' for Question 5.4as they did not satisfy both of the 
above criteria they may FAIL that question in which case the Authority will 
not proceed with the scoring of their Application. 
 
Applicants  may  be  required  to  confirm  the  following  information  during 
evaluation stage when requested: 
   Current assets 
   Current liabilities 
   Total debt 
   Total assets 
 
The Authority reserves the right to use a third party provider of business 
information, this may be to validate the financial information provided by the 
Applicant, to identify areas of concern and/or for further information where 
required. 
The Authority will use the above information to calculate the ratios and/or a 
third-party provider of business information. If an Applicant is found not to 
satisfy both the above criteria they may fail question 5.4 and be excluded 
from the procurement. 
 
The  Authority  reserves  the  right  to  carry  out  further  financial  stability 
evaluation  if  it  deems  it  necessary,  which  may  involve  seeking  further 
information  such  as  details  of  your  accounting  model  or  information 
concerning any underwritten debt. 
 
At the sole discretion of the Authority, the further information provided may 
be taken into account to assess whether your organisation will PASS the 
question.  
5.4 
PASS If the statement is applicable and you have responded 'Yes'. 
FAIL If the statement is applicable and you responded 'No'. 
Section 6   Technical and professional ability (6.1 - 6.3) 
6.1 
This question requires contract(s) that are relevant to the Authority's requirement.  The 
Authority's  requirements  are  set  out  within  the  ITP  and  Service  Specification 
documents.  Examples of contracts relevant to the Authority's requirements may include: 
 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  6   
 
   Contract(s) for services similar to those set out with in the Authority's ITP and 
Specification documents; 
 
   Contract(s)  for  services  which  are  similar  in  nature to those  set  out within  the 
Authority's ITP documents specifically the service specifications. 
 
   Other contracts or major grants as the Authority sees appropriate. 
 
Applicants must provide: 
1.  references from staff in other authorities, e.g. Contract Managers; 
in the event that this is not possible, tenderers must provide: 
2.  references from other public sector bodies - e.g. if you have been contracted by 
other local authorities, the NHS, CCGs, schools, or universities; 
and in the event that this is not possible, tenderers must provide: 
3.  references from the Authority staff. This could be the relevant, Service Manager 
Contract Monitoring Officer, Contract Assurance Officer, Commissioning Manager 
or other job title. 
 
The relevancy of your contracts to the Authority's requirements will be assessed on the 
following.  As part of your responses you must address the nature of the service (service 
description). 
 
Selection Criteria   Reference Request   See Appendix 4b. 
IMPORTANT   References Instructions below: 
 
1)  Applicants are required to contact the referee(s) indicated above for each contract to 
obtain the references.  
2)  Applicants must use the template provided at 'Appendix 4b - Selection Criteria Reference 
Request'. The text must be replicated into the body of an Email. Questions 1-4 in the 
template are for the referee to complete. 
3)  Applicants must submit the Email trail which includes their request and the referee's 
response to questions 1-4 with their Application. Each Reference response must: 
a. be submitted as a separate Email, and; 
b. be submitted as an Email Message format, pdf or any other format which is created 
when you save an Email (rather than copying and pasting the text from an Email into 
a word or other document). 
4)  The Authority may contact the referees to validate their responses during the evaluation 
stage of the process.  
5)  In the event that it is not possible to provide the email trail which includes the Applicants 
request and the referee's response with their Application, Applicants must provide: 
a. The email trail to evidence that they have sent the reference request to the referee, 
and; 
b. The correct contact details at section 6.1 of the Selection Criteria Questionnaire for 
the Council to issue the reference request, or follow up on their request. 
6)  Applicants are reminded that the Council may require satisfactory references to enable 
a pass for this question, therefore they should use best endeavours and allow enough 
time to acquire the necessary references from the referees. 
 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  7   
 
 
PASS The information is complete and the reference(s) which the Authority obtains 
are satisfactory. 
 
FAIL If one or more references gives evidence of a failure to deliver the required 
levels of contract performance it may result in a FAIL.  
No description(s) provided in response to the question, or the contracts 
provided are not relevant to the Authority's requirements may result in a 
FAIL. 
If it is not possible to validate the accuracy of the information provided or if 
the accuracy of the information provided is put in significant doubt by the 
referee this may result in a FAIL. 
However, the information for the other questions within section 6 will be 
taken into account by the Authority to assess whether your organisation will 
PASS the question. 
 
Please note that the Authority will check the word-count of your response(s), 
any words above the word-count will not be evaluated.  The word-count 
applies to each contract, i.e. you have 500 words for Contract 1, 500 words 
for Contract 2, 500 words for Contract 3. 
6.2  
This question requires an explanation as to why examples cannot be given within 6.1 and 
how you meet the selection criteria relating to technical and professional ability. 
PASS Explanation not required by virtue of the response given to 6.1, or the 
explanation provided is satisfactory. 
FAIL No response to the question, or the explanation is not satisfactory. 
However, the information for the other questions within section 6 will be 
taken into account by the Authority to assess whether your organisation will 
PASS the question. 
6.3 
This question requires previous experience of working with subcontractors.  
 
PASS The evidence submitted is satisfactory, even if limited, or no response due 
to no subcontracting in proposed delivery model. 
FAIL No description(s) provided in response to the question where the Applicant 
has stated they would use subcontracting within the delivery model. 
Section 7   Additional Questions (7.1-7.15)  
7.1 Insurance 
PASS You either have or can commit to obtain, prior to the commencement of the 
contract, the levels of insurance cover indicated set out within 7.1. 
FAIL You have not got the necessary cover and are not willing to obtain this if 
offered a contract. 
7.2 Data Protection 
PASS A response of 'Yes' to question 7.2(a) and provided sufficient details of the 
technical facilities and measures you have in place or will have in place by 
contract award which includes facilities and measures as set out in 7.2(b). 
FAIL A response of 'No' to question 7.2(a) and/ or did not provide sufficient details 
of the technical facilities and measures you have in place or will have in 
place by contract award which includes facilities and measures as set out in 
7.2(b). 
7.3 (a) Health and Safety 
PASS A response providing a sufficent description of arrangement in place to 
manage health and safety effectively and control significant risks relevant to 
the requirement. 

Appendix 5   Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
  8   
 
FAIL No  response  or  an  insufficient  description  of  arrangements  in  place  to 
manage health and safety effectively and control significant risks relevant to 
the requirement. 
7.11 CQC Regulated Activity Registration and Rating 
PASS 
 
The requirement to achieve a PASS are set out in the Invitation to Tender 
document section 1.7 (Care Quality Commission registration & Rating) and 
the Applicant must have completed the relevant information within Appendix 
4a Selection Criteria Additional Information. 
FAIL The Applicant fails to meet the requirements set out in the Invitation to 
Tender  document  section  1.7  (Care  Quality  Commission  registration  & 
Rating). 
7.12 Electronic Time Management Systems Lot 1a, Lot 1b and Lot 1c Planned Care only 
PASS A response of 'Yes' to this question 
FAIL A response of 'No' to this question 
 
 
7.15 Relevant Experience   Lot 1a Short Term Care at Home only  
 
Pass 
 
The response demonstrated evidence of past experience which is relevant 
to the service requirements, as per Lot 1a Short Term